.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GIT-COAUTHOR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm git coauthor
.Nd easily add co-authors for Git commits
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl m | -message Ar message
.Op Fl a | -author Ar handle
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility makes it easy to add co-authors to your Git commits. By only specifying the
co-author handle, all of their information is added to the commit message. The
co-author's handle is searched in the co-authors file,
whose location is specified using the
.Ev COAUTHORS_PATH
environment variable. The command will commit all staged files in the current
working directory.
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl m | -message Ar message"
.It Fl m | -message Ar message
Adds a message to the commit. Can be specified multiple times to add multiple messages.
.It Fl a | -author Ar handle
Adds a co-author to the commit. The <handle> must be present in the co-authors file. Can be specified multiple times to add multiple co-authors.
.El
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
The
.Nm
utility depends on the existance of a co-authors file. This file must be an INI file, just like the Git config file. This is an example of a valid co-authors file:
.Bd -literal
    [harry]
        name = Harry Potter
        email = hpotter@hogwarts.edu

    [hermione]
        name = Hermione Granger
        email = hgranger@hogwarts.edu

    [ron]
        name = Ron Weasley
        email = rweasley@hogwarts.edu
.Ed
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev COAUTHORS_PATH"
.It Ev COAUTHORS_PATH
The path to the co-authors file. If not set, the default value is
.Pa ~/.gitauthors
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr git-commit 1
.Sh AUTHOR

.SH AUTHOR
The
.Nm
reference was written by
.An Alejo Flores Lucey Aq Mt alejo@misterflores.com .